NCAA - The acronym for the National Collegiate Athletic Association. A non-profit organization in charge of all college sports.

Assist - A player is awarded an assist when they make a pass that leads directly to a score by one of their teammates.

Block (defensive play) - The term block can be used when a defensive player knocks the basketball out of their opponent's hands or out of the air during an attempted field goal.

Steal - The basketball term steal is used when a player forces a turnover from an opponent by taking the basketball from them or deflecting a pass.

Turnover - A turnover occurs when a players loses possession of the basketball before a shot attempt. This most often occurs due to a poor pass or a violation.

Timeout - Coaches have a certain number of timeouts per quarter or half depending on the league their coaching in. Timeouts are used to rest players, motivate the team, make substitutions, change strategy, etc.

Technical Foul - A technical foul is called when a coach or player brings the game of basketball into disrepute and is not made in relation to contact. This could be actions like yelling at a referee, flopping, kicking a basketball, using inappropriate language, holding onto the rim after a dunk, etc.

Foul - A violation of the rules usually involving illegal contact with a player of the opposition.

Rebound - A 'rebound' is a stat that's awarded to the player who gains possession the basketball after a missed field goal attempt. A rebound can be either offensive (rebound by a player on offense) or defensive (rebound by a player on defense).

Substitution - When a player who was off the court swaps with a player on the court, it's called a substitution. A 'sub' for short.

Free-Throw - An uncontested shot 15 feet from the basket directly in front. Most free-throws are awarded to players who have been fouled while shooting. Each free-throw is worth one point.

Dunk - A dunk is an exciting play involving an offensive player slamming the basketball forcefully through the hoop.

Layup - A close-range shot taken when attacking the basket. Usually involves the shooter banking the basketball off the backboard.

A layup is a two-point attempt made by leaping from the ground, releasing the ball with one hand up near the basket, and using one hand to tip the ball over the rim and into the basket (lay-in) or banking it off the backboard and into the basket (lay-up). The motion and one-handed reach distinguish it from a jump shot. The layup is considered the most basic shot in basketball.

